1 . python is high level programming language
2.  python was develped by guido van rossum in 1989 while working at national research institute at netherlands.
3.  but offficially made available to public in 1991. the official date is 20 feb 1991.
4.  python name was selected from the TV Show
    "The Complete Monty Python's Circus", which was broadcasted in BBC from 1969 to 1974.
5.  Guido developed Python language by taking almost all programming features from
    different languages
    1. Functional Programming Features from C
    2. Object Oriented Programming Features from C++
    3. Scripting Language Features from Perl and Shell Script
    4. Modular Programming Features from Modula-3
6. Most of syntax in Python Derived from C and ABC languages.
7.  Where we can use Python:
    We can use everywhere. The most common important application areas are
    1) For developing Desktop Applications
    2) For developing web Applications
    3) For developing database Applications
    4) For Network Programming
    5) For developing games
    6) For Data Analysis Applications
    7) For Machine Learning
    8) For developing Artificial Intelligence Applications
    9) For IoT..

Features of Python:
1) Simple and easy to learn:
    Python is a simple programming language. When we read Python program,we can feel
    like reading english statements.
    The syntaxes are very simple and only 30+ kerywords are available.
    When compared with other languages, we can write programs with very less number
    of lines. Hence more readability and simplicity.
    We can reduce development and cost of the project.
2) Freeware and Open Source:
    We can use Python software without any licence and it is freeware.
    Its source code is open,so that we can we can customize based on our requirement.
    Eg: Jython is customized version of Python to work with Java Applications.
3) High Level Programming language:
    Python is high level programming language and hence it is programmer friendly
    language.
    Being a programmer we are not required to concentrate low level activities like
    memory management and security etc.
4) Platform Independent:
    Once we write a Python program,it can run on any platform without rewriting once
    again.
    Internally PVM is responsible to convert into machine understandable form.
5) Portability:
    Python programs are portable. ie we can migrate from one platform to another
    platform very easily. Python programs will provide same results on any platform.

6) Dynamically Typed:
    In Python we are not required to declare type for variables. Whenever we are
    assigning the value, based on value, type will be allocated automatically.Hence Python
    is considered as dynamically typed language.
    But Java, C etc are Statically Typed Languages b'z we have to provide type at the
    beginning only.
    This dynamic typing nature will provide more flexibility to the programmer.
7) Both Procedure Oriented and Object Oriented:
    Python language supports both Procedure oriented (like C, pascal etc) and object
    oriented (like C++, Java) features. Hence we can get benefits of both like security and
    reusability etc
8) Interpreted:
    We are not required to compile Python programs explcitly. Internallly python
    interpreter will take care that compilation.
    If compilation fails interpreter raised syntax errors. Once compilation success then
    PVM (Python Virtual Machine) is responsible to execute.
9) Extensible:
    We can use other language programs in Python.
    The main advantages of this approach are:
        We can use already existing legacy non-python code
        we can improve the performance of the operation

10) Embedded:
 We can use Python programs in any other language programs.
 i.e we can embedd Python programs anywhere.
11) Extensive Library:
     Python has a rich inbuilt library.
    Being a programmer we can use this library directly and we are not responsible to
    implement the functionality. Etc.